Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-07-25T12:31:14-03:00

====== Mysticism, Magic and the Supernatural ======

===== Arcana Fundamentum: Magic and its fundamentals =====
//BASE TEÓRICA
leylines and magical topology

To think of it in other terms, matter is by nature lawful
while magic is by nature chaotic,

Unsurprisingly, magic on a planetary scale is a complex thing. Magic works
very similarly to water in that it flows along the path of least resistance. It pools
anywhere, regardless of depth, height, or pressure. Unlike water, magic doesn’t usually
pool in vast quantities. It is rare to find a magic pool any bigger than a large pond. A
magic “stream” is called a ley line, and a magic “pond” is called a terminus. There isn’t
any relationship between the amount of magic flowing into a terminus and the size of a
terminus; some of the most powerful ley lines have small termini while weak ley lines
may have large ones. Ley lines are also unusually straight compared to most water
streams. Most ley lines are divinely aligned, and most termini are arcanely aligned,
though some ley lines and termini are aligned to both.

Magical topography takes no consideration of physical
situation, and it changes with incredible speed in comparison to physical topography.
There is no relationship between physical topography and subtle topography (what
spell casters call the magical topography). Subtle topography, as best explained to me, is
a giant system of tunnels permeating the entirety of a world, completely unaffected by
physical matter. I think of these tunnels as veins and arteries in three dimensions with
tiny little capillaries filling the entirely of the remaining space.

Magic Flows: Ley Lines and Termini
Magic flows exist throughout every world. Some
worlds are so poor in magic that only a few, weak
flows exist, but the average world has hundreds, even
thousands, of flows differing in magnitude. There are
several basic types of flows classified according to
what the ley line does and what affect the terminus
has. All magic flows follow the lay of the subtle
topography.
All magic flows along the general orientation
of the ley line, but ley lines don’t remain fixed
in one area for very long. In this ma􀄴er they’re
similar to rivers, but at a vastly increased
period of change. These changes are,
however, somewhat predicable. Each magic
flow has a particular “flood plain” along
which it moves. Most flows oscillate in a
10 to 40 year period, moving five feet in a
single direction over the period of a single
year. Spellcasters hoping to capitalize on a
magic flow usually build strongholds that
span the entire flood plain area of the ley
line. For example, consider a powerful
flow traveling north south for ten miles.
Every year it moves 5 feet to the west or
the east, and every fi􀄞een years it returns
to its original seat. The flood plain for
this flow moves approximately 75􀄞, and
its period (the length of time from the
center, extreme west, extreme east, and
then back to the center point) is 30 years.
Ley lines also vary in width from year to
year. This change is more unpredictable
than the ley line’s period, but any ley
line rarely increases more than double or
decreased more than half of its original
size. The dynamic width of the ley line
alters the size of its flood plain.
The most common magic flow is
the magic-rich ley line with a magic-rich
terminus. Magic richness increases casting
capabilities, but sometimes it comes at a
cost. The second most common flow is a
magic-rich ley line ending in a terminus
that is an elemental portal. The third most
common is a magic-rich ley line feeding a
null terminus, and the fourth most common
type of magic flow is a null ley line feeding
into a null terminus. The least common of the
classifiable flows is a null ley line feeding into a
multidimensional portal. These five flows make up
over 90% of all flows in most magical worlds. The
remaining flows are almost always unique and have
so far defied easy classification.

Magic-rich ley lines flow like life-giving rivers in the desert. Some ley lines are
small affairs narrow enough for a running halfling to breach, but most are a decent size.
Just like a real river, their effects reach out farther than their width, as concentrated
magic seeps into the surrounding air, soil, and rock. Some ley lines intensify any spell
cast within their area of effect, and some are powerful enough to damage anyone foolish
enough to cast within their range of effect. Magic-rich termini have similar effects, just
a different shape.
Magic-rich ley lines feeding elemental portal termini have slightly different
characteristics; they tend to favor a particular type of magic as indicated by their portal.
They intensify aligned magic while diminishing the opposite element. Some elemental
portals are linked to the positive and negative energy sources as well. These two types
of elemental portals are the most rare, but also most powerful. Negative portals are the
source of many undead while positive portals are o􀄞en holy sites. Of all magic flows
ending in an elemental terminus, only 10% of those end in negative or positive portals.
Most elemental gates are only medium-sized or smaller, though some are much larger.
Negative and positive termini don’t have actual gates (this would result in a massive
energy release as the pure positive or pure negative energy touches ma􀄴er), rather
places where the shells between the planes are thinner.
Magic-rich ley lines also feed into null termini. These magic flows are hard to
understand, but the gods of magic explain that most null termini aren’t really devoid
of magic, per se. Over 90% of null termini are actually magic-rich termini with an
overabundance of microscopic magiotrophs, happily eating a vast percentage of the
magic in the terminus. One would think that this would lead to a great population
crash, but it appears most microscopic magiotrophs self-regulate their population to
such a degree that the population is almost completely stable. In other words, just the
right amount of magic comes out to feed all the magiotrophs, and there’s nothing le􀄞 to
manipulate.
These magic-rich but effectively null magic termini o􀄞en have massive
amounts of vegetation and/or creatures tapping into the abnormally high numbers of
magiotrophs in the area. Magical energy feeding the magiotrophs pump large amounts
of additional energy to the ecosystem, which a􀄴ract more exploiters. Magic-rich null
termini are very similar to oases in comparison to regular terrain. However, don’t try
to cast any spells, they won’t work. I wouldn’t spend too much time there either, unless
you’re willing to have your mind slowly stripped of its ability to manipulate magic.
Some null termini are simply places low in magic. The gods of magic believe these are
magical sinks where magic quickly drains elsewhere, leaving behind an area of null
magic. Beware of these places as well if you use magic.
Null ley lines feeding into null termini share some characteristics with the
above magic flow. Some are places where magiotrophes feed in fast numbers, and these
flows teem with subsequent flourishing of life, but the majority are magical sinks. Sinks
are places where magic is being shunt elsewhere usually via a time manipulation done
by the body magic. I don’t understand the particulars (although my gnome was pleased
to explain them to me – at length), but the particulars aren’t important to the broad scale
at this point. For what it’s worth, the magic isn’t “missing” at these sinks; it’s simply
“somewhere else right now.”
The last of the common magic flows are null ley lines that feed into
multidimensional portals. These compose only a small percentage of all magic flows,
and powerful creatures usually guard them jealously. The portal is typically largesized
and o􀄞en bigger. The gods believe null ley lines feeding into portals power the
connection between two planes. Were the null ley line cease to connect with the portal,
the portal would cease to exist. A very few (0.1%) of these portals can be controlled
and ordered to link to any plane their master wishes. Needless to say, you had best be
prepared if you plan on owning or controlling one of these magic flows.
